README.md, before:

# Node API - Podium
#### Deployed: [node.winatpodium.com](https://node.winatpodium.com)
## Instalation

1. Download or clone the project
2. Open terminal and go to project's folder
3. Install dependencies 

	```
	npm install
	```
4. Create **config.js** file, that exports the app secret and db authentication credentials. (If you are going to run this app in local, use your own db credentials -> *connectMongoose.js file*

	```
	'use_strict'
	
	module.exports {
		'host':'base_url'
		'secret': 'appsecret',
		'db': 'dbname',
		'dbuser': 'dbuser',
		'dbpass': 'dbpassword'
		'google_client_id': 'google_client_id',
		'smtpUserName': 'SESUSERNAME',
		'smtpPass': 'SESPASSWORD'
	}
	```
	
4. Initialize Database: Open a different terminal tab (make sure MongoDB is running before running the command:
	
	```
 	npm run initDB 
 	```
 
	
5. Start the server
	
	```
	npm start or nodemon
	```

 	
 	

## Authentication

This server needs authentication for most of requests , in order to make requests you will need to be register as an *User* and have an **access token**.

**IMPORTANT**: The response for a successfull register/login request will be an *access token* and *refresh token*. Access-token  should be use to authenticate in	**most of the requests as a header** (x-access-token) in order to get a response from the server. Copy the token and save it for further requests. If access-token expires, use refresh-token in order to get a new one.

* **Refresh Token**: Post request to */apiv1/users/refreshToken* with the **Refresh Token as Header (x-refresh-token) of the request**: When access-token expires for user, he will have to call the refresh token request , with the refresh token as route parameter in orther to get a new access-token. If refresh-token is revoked or does not exist, it returns:
	
	```
	{ auth: false } // User must sign in again
	```
if refresh token is exist for user:
	
	```
	{ auth: true, token: 'access-token' }
	```

* **Revoke Tokens**:(auth required) Post request to */apiv1/users/revokeTokens** that revokes the refresh tokens available for an account. Which means that user will have to sign in again to access requests that require authentication.



### Email 
---
Email sign-in and sign-up will be done via **Magic Link**. Instead of authenticating with password, users will recieve an email with magic link that will lead them to the app, where a token will be retrieved from the magic link in order to request the authentication tokens (access and refresh).

* **Email Connect**: Post request to */apiv1/users/emailConnect?email='userEmail'*. Verifies weather an account exists for the email or not. (notice if the account had logged in before with another method(google or facebobok) it will login anyway via email.) if it exists it sends a magic link to the user email account and returns: 

	```
	{ auth: true } // status 200
	```
	
	If it doesn't exist, it returns :

	```
	{ auth: false } // status 202 , lead user to registration fields (name 	and alias)
	```

* **Email Register**: Post request to */apiv1/users/emailRegister*: Registers user with the information from the body of the request:

	```
	{
	name: name,
	alias: alias,
	email: email
	}
	```
	Sends magic link to the user, if the magic link has been sent 	successfully, the request returns:

	```
	{ auth: true }
	```
* **Tokens**: (auth required) Post request to */apiv1/users/tokens*.Token sent in this request must be the one **recieved within the magic link**. If token is valid, it returns a new access-token and refresh-token for the user.
	
	```
	{ auth: true,
	  accessToken: 'access-token',
	  refreshToken: 'refresh-token'}
	```

### Google
---
* **Google Connect**: Post request to */apiv1/users/googleConnect?googleToken='user_token_google'*. If user exists and is merged with google, it logs in, if its not merge with google it merges the user with google and logs in anyway. both return:
	
	```
	{ auth: true, token: token } // status 200, user sign-in successfully
	```
	
	If user does not exist:

	```
	{ auth : true, token: token } // status 201 , user signed-up successfully
	```
	
### Facebobok // TODO
---
### Login Gateway // Testing only, will be deprecated
---

If your token expires after having registered, you may login into the server. Do a *post* request to /apiv1/users/login with the next body: 

```
{ email: 'email'}
```

The response for the request will be an *access token* that should be use in **requests that require authentication as a header** (x-access-token) in order to get a response from the server.
	

## Usage

Once you've registered and have an *access-token* you will be able to get responses with documents from the DataBase, by adding a header with key as **x-access-token** and value as your token.

### Games
---

* **Get Games**: In order to recieve the games in the database make a *get* request to */apiv1/games*. Also, games can be filtered in the query of the request:

	* By name:  */apiv1/games?name='some_name'* 
	* Set a limit: */apiv1/games?limit=2*
	* Sort the ads by property: */apiv1/games?sort=sport*

* **Get Game Detail**: Get request to */apiv1/games/detail/gameObjectId?participants=true* 

	(Adding participants=true or participants = false to the query, populates the 	property *participants* of the game being recieved or not, with the Team 	objects participanting on the game )

* **Post Game**: (auth required) Post request to */apiv1/games*. The post must have a body with the next format:
	
	```
	{
	name: 'name_of_game'
	sport: 'sport_of_game'
	}
	```
	
* **Subscribe to Game**: (auth required) Post request to */apiv1/games/signup/gameObjectid*.

* **Delete Game** : (auth required) Delete request to */apiv1/games/gameObjectid*

### Tournaments:
---

* **Get Tournaments**:

	 In order to recieve the tournaments in the database make a *get* request to */apiv1/tournaments*. Also, tournaments can be filtered in the query of the request:

	* By name:  */apiv1/tournaments?name='some_name'* 
	* By type: */apiv1/tournaments?type=league*
	* Set a limit: */apiv1/tournaments?limit=2*
	* Skip certain ads: */apiv1/tournaments?skip=2&skip=6*
	* Recieve only chosen fields of the ads: */apiv1/tournaments?fields=name&fields=sport*
	* Sort the ads by property: */apiv1/tournaments?sort=sport*

* **Get Tournament Detail**: Get request to */apiv1/tournaments/tournamentObjectId?participants=true* 

	(Adding participants=true or participants = false to the query, populates the 	property *participants* of the tournament being recieved or not, with the Team 	objects participanting on the tournament)

* **Post Tournament**: Post request to /apiv1/tournaments. The post must have a body with the next format:

	```
	{
	name: 'name',
	compType: 'compType',
	}
	
	```
* **Subscribe to tournament**: Post request to */apiv1/tournaments/signup/tournamentObjectid*. post must have a body with the next format
	
* **Delete Tournament** : Delete request to /apiv1/tournaments/tournamentObjectid
		
### Users:
---

* **Get Users**:

 	In order to recieve the users registered in the database make a *get* request to */	apiv1/users*. Also, ads can be filtered in the query of the request:
 	
 	* By name:  */apiv1/users?name='some_name'*
 	* By alias:  */apiv1/users?alias='some_alias'*
 	* Set a limit: */apiv1/users?limit=2*
 	* Skip certain ads: */apiv1/users?skip=2&skip=6*
 	* Recieve only chosen fields of the ads: */apiv1/users?fields=name&fields=alias*
 	* Sort the ads by property: */apiv1/users?sort=name*
 	
* **Get User Detail**: Get request to */apiv1/users/detail/userObjectId?games=true* 

	(Adding games=true or games=false to the query, populates the 	property *gamesPlaying* of the game being recieved or not, with the Game 	objects that the user is participating in)

* **Delete User**: (auth required) Delete request to /apiv1/users/userObjectid

Commit message:

Fixed image for sports, token flow finished, refresh will be done later with Auth0

README.md, after:

# Node API - Podium
#### Deployed: [node.winatpodium.com](https://node.winatpodium.com)
## Instalation

1. Download or clone the project
2. Open terminal and go to project's folder
3. Install dependencies 

	```
	npm install
	```
4. Create **config.js** file, that exports the app secret and db authentication credentials. (If you are going to run this app in local, use your own db credentials -> *connectMongoose.js file*

	```
	'use_strict'
	
	module.exports {
		'host':'base_url'
		'secret': 'appsecret',
		'db': 'dbname',
		'dbuser': 'dbuser',
		'dbpass': 'dbpassword'
		'google_client_id': 'google_client_id',
		'smtpUserName': 'SESUSERNAME',
		'smtpPass': 'SESPASSWORD'
	}
	```
	
4. Initialize Database: Open a different terminal tab (make sure MongoDB is running before running the command:
	
	```
 	npm run initDB 
 	```
 
	
5. Start the server
	
	```
	npm start or nodemon
	```

 	
 	

## Authentication

This server needs authentication for most of requests , in order to make requests you will need to be register as an *User* and have an **access token**.

**IMPORTANT**: The response for a successfull register/login request will be an *access token* and *refresh token*. Access-token  should be use to authenticate in	**most of the requests as a header** (x-access-token) in order to get a response from the server. Copy the token and save it for further requests. If access-token expires, use refresh-token in order to get a new one.

* **Refresh Token**: Post request to */apiv1/users/refreshToken* with the **Refresh Token as Header (x-refresh-token) of the request**: When access-token expires for user, he will have to call the refresh token request , with the refresh token as route parameter in orther to get a new access-token. If refresh-token is revoked or does not exist, it returns:
	
	```
	{ auth: false } // User must sign in again
	```
if refresh token is exist for user:
	
	```
	{ auth: true, accessToken: 'access-token' }
	```


### Email 
---
Email sign-in and sign-up will be done via **Magic Link**. Instead of authenticating with password, users will recieve an email with magic link that will lead them to the app, where a token will be retrieved from the magic link in order to request the authentication tokens (access and refresh).

* **Email Connect**: Post request to */apiv1/users/emailConnect?email='userEmail'*. Verifies weather an account exists for the email or not. (notice if the account had logged in before with another method(google or facebobok) it will login anyway via email.) if it exists it sends a magic link to the user email account and returns: 

	```
	{ auth: true } // status 200
	```
	
	If it doesn't exist, it returns :

	```
	{ auth: false } // status 202 , lead user to registration fields (name 	and alias)
	```

* **Email Register**: Post request to */apiv1/users/emailRegister*: Registers user with the information from the body of the request:

	```
	{
	name: name,
	alias: alias,
	email: email
	}
	```
	Sends magic link to the user, if the magic link has been sent 	successfully, the request returns:

	```
	{ auth: true }
	```
* **Tokens**: (auth required) Post request to */apiv1/users/tokens*.Token sent in this request must be the one **recieved within the magic link**. If token is valid, it returns a new access-token and refresh-token for the user.
	
	```
	{ auth: true,
	  accessToken: 'access-token',
	  refreshToken: 'refresh-token'}
	```

### Google
---
* **Google Connect**: Post request to */apiv1/users/googleConnect?googleToken='user_token_google'*. If user exists and is merged with google, it logs in, if its not merge with google it merges the user with google and logs in anyway. both return:
	
	```
	{ auth: true, accessToken: token, refreshToken: token } // status 200, user sign-in successfully
	```
	
	If user does not exist:

	```
	{ auth : true, accessToken: token, refreshToken: token } // status 201 , user signed-up successfully
	```
	
### Facebobok // TODO
---
### Login Gateway // Testing only, will be deprecated
---

If your token expires after having registered, you may login into the server. Do a *post* request to /apiv1/users/login with the next body: 

```
{ email: 'email'}
```

The response for the request will be an *access token* that should be use in **requests that require authentication as a header** (x-access-token) in order to get a response from the server.
	

## Usage

Once you've registered and have an *access-token* you will be able to get responses with documents from the DataBase, by adding a header with key as **x-access-token** and value as your token.

### Sports
---

* **Get Sports**: In order to recieve the sports in the database make a get requst to */apiv1/sports*.
* **Post Sport**: In order to upload a new sport to the database, make a post request to *apiv1/sports*. The body of the request must contain the following information:

	```
	{ name: 'sport_name',
	  description: 'sport_description',
	  rules: 'sport_rules' }
	```
* **Upload sport image**: Post request to */apiv1/sports/'sportObjectId'*. Image should be in the body of the request with value 'image'.

### Games
---

* **Get Games**: In order to recieve the games in the database make a *get* request to */apiv1/games*. Also, games can be filtered in the query of the request:

	* By name:  */apiv1/games?name='some_name'* 
	* Set a limit: */apiv1/games?limit=2*
	* Sort the ads by property: */apiv1/games?sort=sport*

* **Get Game Detail**: Get request to */apiv1/games/detail/gameObjectId?participants=true* 

	(Adding participants=true or participants = false to the query, populates the 	property *participants* of the game being recieved or not, with the Team 	objects participanting on the game )

* **Post Game**: (auth required) Post request to */apiv1/games*. The post must have a body with the next format:
	
	```
	{
	name: 'name_of_game'
	sport: 'sport_of_game'
	}
	```
	
* **Subscribe to Game**: (auth required) Post request to */apiv1/games/signup/gameObjectid*.

* **Delete Game** : (auth required) Delete request to */apiv1/games/gameObjectid*

### Tournaments:
---

* **Get Tournaments**:

	 In order to recieve the tournaments in the database make a *get* request to */apiv1/tournaments*. Also, tournaments can be filtered in the query of the request:

	* By name:  */apiv1/tournaments?name='some_name'* 
	* By type: */apiv1/tournaments?type=league*
	* Set a limit: */apiv1/tournaments?limit=2*
	* Skip certain ads: */apiv1/tournaments?skip=2&skip=6*
	* Recieve only chosen fields of the ads: */apiv1/tournaments?fields=name&fields=sport*
	* Sort the ads by property: */apiv1/tournaments?sort=sport*

* **Get Tournament Detail**: Get request to */apiv1/tournaments/tournamentObjectId?participants=true* 

	(Adding participants=true or participants = false to the query, populates the 	property *participants* of the tournament being recieved or not, with the Team 	objects participanting on the tournament)

* **Post Tournament**: Post request to /apiv1/tournaments. The post must have a body with the next format:

	```
	{
	name: 'name',
	compType: 'compType',
	}
	
	```
* **Subscribe to tournament**: Post request to */apiv1/tournaments/signup/tournamentObjectid*. post must have a body with the next format
	
* **Delete Tournament** : Delete request to /apiv1/tournaments/tournamentObjectid
		
### Users:
---

* **Get Users**:

 	In order to recieve the users registered in the database make a *get* request to */	apiv1/users*. Also, ads can be filtered in the query of the request:
 	
 	* By name:  */apiv1/users?name='some_name'*
 	* By alias:  */apiv1/users?alias='some_alias'*
 	* Set a limit: */apiv1/users?limit=2*
 	* Skip certain ads: */apiv1/users?skip=2&skip=6*
 	* Recieve only chosen fields of the ads: */apiv1/users?fields=name&fields=alias*
 	* Sort the ads by property: */apiv1/users?sort=name*
 	
* **Get User Detail**: Get request to */apiv1/users/detail/userObjectId?games=true* 

	(Adding games=true or games=false to the query, populates the 	property *gamesPlaying* of the game being recieved or not, with the Game 	objects that the user is participating in)

* **Delete User**: (auth required) Delete request to /apiv1/users/userObjectid
